---
layout: default
title: "Devlog 0: Setting the Foundation"
date: 2026-01-31
categories: [Journal, C++, Finance]
excerpt: "My first weekly log. Reflections on completing the Akuna Options 101 course, my roadmap for learning C++26, and the start of my Zero-Copy Parser."
---

## Introduction
I am starting this devlog to document my personal projects and technical learning outside of university. 

This series serves as a mechanism for **weekly accountability**. Every week, I will update this page with what I have built, the concepts I have learned, and the roadblocks I have faced. 

## Recent Milestone: Options 101
I recently completed the **Akuna Capital Options 101** course. While my background is in CS and AI, I have always been intrigued by the mechanics of trading and market microstructure.

The course bridged the gap between theory and practice, clarifying the specific roles of market participants (like Market Makers) and solidifying my understanding of core derivatives concepts, particularly **Call/Put Parity** and **The Greeks** (Delta/Gamma).

## Current Focus: Modern C++
My primary technical focus is mastering **C++26**.

I am taking a "first principles" approach, working through `LearnCPP` to ensure I build a rigorous understanding of the language's memory model rather than just syntax. 

To consolidate this theory, I have set a hard deadline: I aim to have a fully implemented **Zero-Copy Parser** by the end of February (Devlog 4).

## Current Project: Adaptive Kalman Filter
While im learning C++ and before my C++ skills are strong enough to develop my Parser, I'm going to be improving my **Kalman Filter**. I made this project at the start of January, and managed to achieve a Sharpe Ratio of 1.67 over a 10 year backtest (I didn't want the ratio to be *too* high, or my program would overfit to the history of the relationship of the pair of tickers I chose).

I am going to spend the next week or two improving my Kalman Filter, and as I'm writing these devlogs, I will be documenting important reflections I've made during this process.
